README.md, before:

# Prisma + tRPC + WebSockets

Try demo http://websockets.trpc.io/

## Features

- 🧙‍♂️ E2E type safety with [tRPC](https://trpc.io)
- ⚡ Full-stack React with Next.js
- ⚡ WebSockets / Subscription support
- ⚡ Database with Prisma
- 🔐 Authorization using [next-auth](https://next-auth.js.org/)
- ⚙️ VSCode extensions
- 🎨 ESLint + Prettier
- 💚 CI setup using GitHub Actions:
  - ✅ E2E testing with [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/)
  - ✅ Linting

## Setup

```bash
pnpm create next-app --example https://github.com/trpc/trpc --example-path examples/next-prisma-websockets-starter trpc-prisma-websockets-starter
cd trpc-prisma-websockets-starter
pnpm i
pnpm dx
```

## Deployment

### Using [Render](https://render.com/)

The project contains a [`render.yaml`](./render.yaml) [_"Blueprint"_](https://render.com/docs/blueprint-spec) which makes the project easily deployable on [Render](https://render.com/).

The database is setup with a `starter` plan, but you can use a free plan for 90 days.

Go to [dashboard.render.com/blueprints](https://dashboard.render.com/blueprints) and connect to this Blueprint and see how the app and database automatically gets deployed.

You will either need to create an environment group called `trpc-websockets` with environment variables or remove that from `render.yaml` in favor of manual environment variables that overrides the ones in `/.env`.

## Files of note

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Path</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="./prisma/schema.prisma"><code>./prisma/schema.prisma</code></a></td>
      <td>Prisma schema</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="./src/api/trpc/[trpc].tsx"><code>./src/api/trpc/[trpc].tsx</code></a></td>
      <td>tRPC response handler</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="./src/server/routers"><code>./src/server/routers</code></a></td>
      <td>Your app's different tRPC-routers</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Commands

```bash
pnpm build      # runs `prisma generate` + `prisma migrate` + `next build`
pnpm db-nuke    # resets local db
pnpm dev        # starts next.js + WebSocket server
pnpm dx         # starts postgres db + runs migrations + seeds + starts next.js
pnpm test-dev   # runs e2e tests on dev
pnpm test-start # runs e2e tests on `next start` - build required before
pnpm test:unit  # runs normal Vitest unit tests
pnpm test:e2e   # runs e2e tests
```

---

Created by [@alexdotjs](https://twitter.com/alexdotjs).

Commit message:

trying to make this work for my use case pt. 1

README.md, after:

# tRPC Websocket Server + Tauri Desktop App Client Demo
In this repo I am trying to figure out how to get a project working with tRPC where the server accepts requests via WebSockets and the client is a Desktop App built with Tauri. 

This thing uses `pnpm` so make sure to install it.
## Install
`pnpm i`

Currently, this thing doesn't run out of the box as a `postgres` DB is expected to exist and be linked via `DATABASE_URL` in your `.env` file?

I will try to remove all the DB-related things (references to postgres + Prisma).


# OLD README from initial template: Prisma + tRPC + WebSockets

Try demo http://websockets.trpc.io/

## Features

- 🧙‍♂️ E2E type safety with [tRPC](https://trpc.io)
- ⚡ Full-stack React with Next.js
- ⚡ WebSockets / Subscription support
- ⚡ Database with Prisma
- 🔐 Authorization using [next-auth](https://next-auth.js.org/)
- ⚙️ VSCode extensions
- 🎨 ESLint + Prettier
- 💚 CI setup using GitHub Actions:
  - ✅ E2E testing with [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/)
  - ✅ Linting

## Setup

```bash
pnpm create next-app --example https://github.com/trpc/trpc --example-path examples/next-prisma-websockets-starter trpc-prisma-websockets-starter
cd trpc-prisma-websockets-starter
pnpm i
pnpm dx
```

## Deployment

### Using [Render](https://render.com/)

The project contains a [`render.yaml`](./render.yaml) [_"Blueprint"_](https://render.com/docs/blueprint-spec) which makes the project easily deployable on [Render](https://render.com/).

The database is setup with a `starter` plan, but you can use a free plan for 90 days.

Go to [dashboard.render.com/blueprints](https://dashboard.render.com/blueprints) and connect to this Blueprint and see how the app and database automatically gets deployed.

You will either need to create an environment group called `trpc-websockets` with environment variables or remove that from `render.yaml` in favor of manual environment variables that overrides the ones in `/.env`.

## Files of note

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Path</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="./prisma/schema.prisma"><code>./prisma/schema.prisma</code></a></td>
      <td>Prisma schema</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="./src/api/trpc/[trpc].tsx"><code>./src/api/trpc/[trpc].tsx</code></a></td>
      <td>tRPC response handler</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="./src/server/routers"><code>./src/server/routers</code></a></td>
      <td>Your app's different tRPC-routers</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Commands

```bash
pnpm build      # runs `prisma generate` + `prisma migrate` + `next build`
pnpm db-nuke    # resets local db
pnpm dev        # starts next.js + WebSocket server
pnpm dx         # starts postgres db + runs migrations + seeds + starts next.js
pnpm test-dev   # runs e2e tests on dev
pnpm test-start # runs e2e tests on `next start` - build required before
pnpm test:unit  # runs normal Vitest unit tests
pnpm test:e2e   # runs e2e tests
```

---

Created by [@alexdotjs](https://twitter.com/alexdotjs).
